In this lesson, we have an independent work. It is necessary to create a ChangeWeapon service
that will automatically change weapons for our NPC, the service must have one
parameter: the probability of changing weapons. The probability can be implemented using a random
number generator and you can also adjust the interval so that this change does not occur so often.
So, let's get down to solving the task. First, we need to create a service class.
We inherit from BTService. We call the service STUChangeWeaponService.
And we finish creating the class.
I immediately created a constructor for a service named change weapon, a TickNode function and added the necessary header files ...
Go to the header file.
Let's start by adding property probabilities. I will paste the macro from the clipboard. The meta information
contains clamp - the probability can vary from zero to one. Let's name the variable probability.
Let the default probability be 0.5, that is, 50 to 50, that our character will change weapons. Go to the .cpp file.
Let's write our code. If controller is not nullptr.
Then we can get the weapon component from pawn.
Next, we check that the weapon component is not nullptr.
To calculate the probability, we will use a function from the FMath class called FRand.
If we press f12 on a function, we will see that this function returns a random number between zero and one, inclusive.
Therefore, to change weapons, we just need to check that this generated number is less than
or equal to our probability variable. There is also a special case: if our probability
equals zero, that is, we do not want to change the weapon, and FRand, according to the documentation, can generate the number 0.
With such parameter values, our condition will be fulfilled, that is, 0 is less than or equal to 0, so
let's explicitly we will indicate that the probability must be greater than 0 and when these three conditions are met,
we will change the weapon. To do this, we need to call the NextWeapon function, which is located in the weapon component.
We start. Let's add our service to the behavior tree. We'll do this first for the topmost selector node.
This will be more convenient for checking. Add the change weapon service, make the probability high enough - 0.8, set the
interval to one second. We launch. Let's look at our NPC
and see that he is changing the weapon
With our parameter values, this happens very often, but we made sure that the service works.
Let's transfer the service to the attack node - the character will try to change the weapon only when attacking
and slightly change the parameters. Let's set the interval - 3 seconds, the probability can be left.
We launch. It is also possible in the code that the character wants to change weapons, but cannot,
because, for example, he shoots or reloads. This logic can naturally be improved:
make a delayed replacement of weapons, that is, if the NPC wanted to change weapons, but could not -
complete this task, immediately when this opportunity is provided. But these are already details.